Hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is the Lenovo Y 720 so the review for
this thing is long overdue
they actually showcased this laptop at
CES of 2017 so that's like eight months
ago and I finally was able to get my
review unit in last week and I've been
playing with it for a while
this thing is one of the cheapest
laptops you can get with a GTX 1060 so
this thing comes in it just over a
thousand dollars I think like 1020
dollars if I'm not mistaken and the
build quality is really good the
paneling is strong all over it's got
aluminum on the outside the keyboard
deck is plastic but it's very rigid all
the surfaces feel oddly strong for the
price point the hinge uses a design
where they're closer together and I
normally don't like this but they've
built it very well this year it feels
very durable the port selection is
better than most gaming laptops at this
price point lots of use B ports a couple
of display outs a thin about three port
and an Ethernet jack the only thing that
I would say it's missing is an SD card
slot and if you're curious the Fennell
l3 port is actually full four-lane PCIe
not two lanes like some other laptops
which is nice the internals are access
really easily there's just some screws
on the bottom the RAM has a cover of
some sort but remove that and you can
replace the RAM and you also have access
to both drives as well there's a two and
half inch SATA and an m2 SSD the battery
down here has a bit of a weird shape
it's this giant L and it's a 60 watt
hour battery and I'm getting around four
hours of battery life using the 4k
screen you'll also notice down here a
woofer dome the speakers on this laptop
are pretty good there are a pair of
speakers up top to complement that sub
these get really loud like uncomfortably
loud they sound clean at regular volumes
and the bass is present but the moment
you crank it up to even like 60 70
percent volume the distortion is pretty
severe the keyboard has a good layout
Ashley liked it a lot
the arrow keys are under the number pad
so it makes it very roomy but it might
be weird for people who frequently use a
normal number pad the keystrokes are a
little shallow and I feel like it could
be a bit more responsive on the whole it
is a decent keyboard overall and it has
RGB back letting it slip by zones and
not individual keys but at this price
point you're normally stuck with red
backlighting so this is a nice touch the
trackpad is an e line track
and it's okay it's not ideal I know a
lot of trackpads on gaming laptops never
even get used most people just plug up
mice for playing and stuff but I still
think it could have been better the
surface is nice and the button mechanism
is good but the tracking doesn't feel
consistent to me I'm getting occasional
skips another thing that I don't love is
the design now I know I mentioned that
the build quality is really good and it
is but the design feels kind of out of
place to me it's got this crosshatch
pattern on it and it's cool that they
went for something different than most
other gaming laptops but I don't know I
don't love it and it's also prone to
fingerprint smudges now most of it comes
from just the material because it's a
matte aluminum it just shows smudges
really readily but yeah if that's
something that bothers you be aware the
screen is okay I'm using the newly
released 4k panel here I've also used
the Tandy P panel in the past both are
IPS panels but don't get very bright now
part of the reason why the screen is
dimmer like this is because they put
this matte coating on it you can remove
the coating I've seen it done in the
past I've done it before on older than
oval laptops basically you take a hair
dryer heat it up peel it off I'm not
gonna do it on this because it's a
review unit but in the past when you do
do it it does get a little bit brighter
just because the material is gone the
bezels on the screen are a little thick
on the top and bottom but for the money
it's kind of expected and the webcam
looks ok it's a 720p cam nothing special
performance on this laptop is solid it's
excellent for 1080p gaming it'll handle
lights and Midway titles easily you'll
be way above 60 frames per second on
just about any modern triple-a shooter
some open-world games can get a bit more
demanding so you might have to lower
image quality little but in general this
laptop is more than enough for Tandy P
gaming and it's fully VR ready only
really demanding games or poorly
optimized games like pub G will need
lowered graphics settings and when I
play pub G on this thing I only felt
comfortable with the frame weights when
I put too low graphics quality
thermal performance is good I ran some
stress tests and the external
temperatures say comfortable during
those tests as well now originally this
laptop had some thermal issues when it
first launched I know that some of the
early reviews like the very early units
had some issues with external
temperatures but I didn't notice any of
that with this unit for the stock fan
settings like the automatic fans they're
pretty quiet and they cool it adequately
but if you put on an extreme cooling it
gets really loud it does help a little
bit I mean temperatures are a little bit
lower it's not really worth it to me
though the extra noise is way too loud
but if you live somewhere warm or you
use your computer when you don't have
access to air-conditioning
that could be really useful so the
Lenovo Y 720 this thing gives you some
pretty good value for the money it's
everything you'd expect but it's a very
well-built laptop starting at just over
$1,000
the screen is probably its weakest point
both the 4k and the 1080p panels feel
relatively dim the keyboard has zoned
RGB backlighting shallow stroke in the
keys but it's comfortable to type on the
trackpad uses eland drivers and there's
some occasional tracking issues inside
the gtx 1060 and the kb lake cpu options
are awesome for 1080p gaming and are
well cooled without the fan getting too
loud the RAM and both drives are easily
upgraded if you want and the battery
comes in at 60 watt hours with okay
battery life I'm getting around four
hours with the 4k screen so a GTX 1060
laptop for around thousand dollars is a
pretty good value there's two real
competitors to this first is like a
broad competitor which are the
bare-bones systems like cleveo and Sager
but the other kind of brand-name
competitor is the Acer Helios 300 which
I've reviewed for in the past they both
have black and red gamer aesthetics I
wouldn't call either of them
better-looking than the other if you're
trying to choose between the two they're
both good the y 720 has better build
quality and I think on the whole is just
a more complete laptop it has RGB
backlighting it's got the final three
port it has better thermal
characteristics I mean it's just got
more aggressive cooling it's heavier
it's got a bigger battery it's a more
substantial laptop the Acer Helios 300
it's a little bit cheaper so you're
going to get better bang for your buck
in terms of just bra performance but it
is I I would consider it a quote-unquote
cheaper feeling laptop just because it's
got more plastic and
all devices just lighter weight and
everything but seriously both of them
are great can't go wrong with out of
them I would go for this one you want
build quality I'd go with the Helios 300
if you want just pure value okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs be
liked it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]